Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to reintroduce objects.
All right, so we have talked about what objects are right, but this chapter is dedicated to talking
about objects more deeply.
We are going to dive deep into the subject of objects.
Right now.
Objects are another data structures.
They are actually the core of JavaScript or objects.
Now, since the start, since the release of year 2015 or ESX, we do not call them objects any more.
But that's just for simplicity purposes.
Their actual name is an object literal.
All right.
And they store a key value pairs.
OK.
Now, objects and arrays, both of them are data structures, all right, but the information stored
in objects are properties and are represented as key value pairs as opposed to items in arrays.
Therefore, we can store more complex data with objects, and accessing such properties is done by accessing
their keys.
Right.
So key value pairs and objects are actually called properties.
All right.
And because we have because we can store key value pairs in objects, we can store more complex data.
But as with arrays, we can use const as with arrays, we can use const with objects because like arrays,
objects are also referenced by their names.
As long as we do not change the reference of the object, we should be fine if we use const with objects.
So let's go ahead and let's create our very first object and I'm going to call it address.
So the name of this object, we are going to use const and let and we are going to use const for objects
and for a raise as much as we can.
Right.
So we are going to say address and now the syntax for any object is a curly brace, right.
It is a curly brace and inside the curly brace we are going to have a key and we we are going to have
a value.
These key and values, they are going to create a pair.
That's why they're called key value pairs.
And all of these key value pairs are called properties of this object.
Right.
So the country this is the key.
And the value is going to be turkey.
Right.
And always we always separate key value pairs, this combination, this combo with eCom.
So this ideology is the same in arrays and in objects.
Right.
And I'm going to say city.
And keep in mind that these are colon's they are not semicolon, they're just calling.
So I'm going to zoom in country.
This is our key colon colon.
Then we have our value, all right.
And then we have comma and then we have again and a key colon value, comma and so on and so forth.
All right, so the city is going to be Istanbul.
All right, so let's save it and now how can we take a look at the object inside the browser as we just
go going to go ahead and we are going to consider log the name of that object and now you guys can see
that the syntax has been changed.
Now, as with arrays, we had brackets with with objects.
We have curly braces.
All right.
And here it says object.
We have a city.
The value is Istanbul and we have a country.
The value is.
All right.
So we have just created our very first object.
OK, now, the next thing that I want to talk about is accessing the object data.
How can we access the object data?
Well, actually, there are two methods that we can access the data from any object.
OK, and accessing the properties of an object is done through the DOT syntax.
All right.
The DOT syntax is also used for accessing methods.
Now, keep this in mind.
We do have the DOT syntax like dot push that length.
But some of some of those dot syntaxes, they are used for accessing methods and some of them are used
for accessing properties.
The difference is in the parentheses, right, the concept is the same.
All right, so we are going to go ahead and we're going to say concertante lock.
First off, we are going to access the name of the object and through the dot notation, whenever I
had done, you guys can see that here.
It's a city and it's this country.
And when the cube is blue, it means these are properties.
And when the cube is purple and in the right and the upright direction, then that is going to be a
property.
So that's going to be a method.
But when the cube is lying and it's blue, then it is a property.
And when I click on the city, we are going to get this number.
All right.
Very, very cool.
And we are going to say it is very BCU.
To four, but this is a string, so we should provide it inside quotes.
Istanbul is very beautiful, right, so we can do this as well, of course, they should do it in two
steps so there is no confusion.
All right.
So this is the first method that we can use to access the data from any from any object we can use templates,
strings as well, or template literals.
And for that, what I'm going to do is I'm going to create I'm going to do some tactics and we are going
to create our template literal and we are going to say address.
So this is our object and the object is stored within a variable.
Right.
So this is the variable name.
This is address.
And what do we want to get?
We want to grab the country property and we say has an astounding, astounding scenery.
And it says Turkey has an its and Turkey has an astounding sener, right, so we can access them through
back ticks or the Templar strings as well.
OK, so, so far, so good.
And we are going to move on to the next method that we can access.
And this method is called through a raid brackets.
All right.
I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to copy the comment and I'm going to paste it right here.
So accessing the object data method to array brackets.
All right.
And these are used for a number of properties and strings of multiple words as object properties.
Now, so far, we have seen that these strings, these sort of these keys, they have only one word.
What if they have two words?
Then we cannot use the dot notation, because in that case, we would say city.
And then a space space is in property names and in method names.
They are invalid JavaScript syntax.
And for that we can use the second we can use the second method to access the data from an object.
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to comment about the object and I'm going to create another object
of person so we can have more data to work with.
So the name is going to be.
I don't know, like Sam, let's name him Sam, and the Age is going to be 31, right.
And then we have full address, right.
Full address is going to be Athans.
Athens, Greece, I hope I'm pronouncing that correctly and the job.
Is going to be Captain America.
Right, so now you guys can see it through an error here, because there is a comma missing there.
You should never miss your come and nineteen ninety or 1984 or 85.
What am I writing here?
85 is the dÅ dobe date of birth.
So this is a valid JavaScript object.
We can't now.
I have I have I have done something diverse.
We have used multiple words as keys.
We have used numbers, eskies, because I will show you how the second method works.
So we are going to say Konzerthaus log.
First off, let's go ahead and log the person object and it is person, and so this is our object,
all right.
Everything everything is there.
Now, what I'm going to do is let's go ahead and let's say we want to grab the edge.
So if I put in the dart, we can grab the H like this, just 30 Asias 31.
Right.
But the other method is through this, we can grab it through like this as well.
Now, keep in mind that this age is not a valid JavaScript identifier.
That's why you should put it inside inside quotations, the keys in any object.
They are not valid JavaScript identifiers.
That's why if I go ahead and if I if I declare another age here, this is going to be all right, because
this age is a variable and this age is actually a key inside an object.
So this is a fun fact about JavaScript object keys as well.
And that's why whenever your access is accessing them through brackets, you should you should provide
them insights, inside quotations so we can go ahead and we can grab the 1990 but 1985 sorry, 1985.
But if I do it like this, it is going to give us the job.
We can't do it like this and we can do it like the through the quotations as well.
All right.
This is a best practice.
You should do it like this.
All right.
So let's check it out.
Let's check out The Age, whether or not it works like that.
Age is not defined, see, so this is a number, so numbers, we can use numbers themselves or we can
use numbers, strings, because JavaScript coerces the time.
So there is no problem there.
But as far as the strings are concerned, we should provide them inside their quotations.
Right.
And and now for the final one, once and for the most, like a weighted one is this one.
So we are going to say full.
Actress and we should be able to get it, says Athens, Greece, Greece, but what if we use the dot
notation with the with two words for a key?
So if I say four, we are going to get this, OK?
This is not what I want to get.
This is for and address.
Let's save it.
And now we get missing this after argument list.
Now, this is incorrect.
This is an error in JavaScript console.
Audiences expected this comma, right.
Because this is not a valid JavaScript code inside your properties and inside your methods, you should
not have spaces.
So if I do this, we are still not going to get it because it says undefined.
So the only way that we can get a key that has more than one word is through the bracket, through the
bracket notation.
All right.
So that's it for this.
See you guys in the next one.